Premium health insurance plans
all look very similar on paper
.  But the real value
lies in the implementation of features.  So
today, IIC Lombard Elevate 2025 has made the
Yed On ecosystem even stronger with updates
.  Additionally, this
policy also includes unique features like surrogate coverage
.  So
this is a standout policy in the market.
So this policy promise is simple, it
provides you with comprehensive coverage,
that too
with extensive customization options. Hello everyone,
I am Ajith, welcome to Dito Insurance, a
company that has been providing
honest and unbiased
insurance advice to 9 lakh plus Indians.
24/7 free support from application to claims with IDI certified advisors. If you want to know if
Elevate is right for you based on your needs
or if it's better to look at alternatives,
book a free call
.  The link is in the description
.  So coming back to this video, if you
look at the insurer's background, IICI
Lombard is a joint venture between IICI Bank and
Fairfax Holdings with
20 plus years of experience
.  It can also be said that it has a strong presence in the motor, health,
fire, and liability verticals
.  In addition, if we look specifically at the
health insurance segment,
we have launched a policy called Elevate as a
flagship product
.  So this policy can be said to be the
most comprehensive policy in their portfolio
.  So
if we look at the company's performance, we have an average claim settlement ratio of 85% for the last three
years, that is, from 2022 to 2025
.  So,
compared to the industry average, it must be said that this is a little
low.  Because the
industry average for us is 89.76%
.  And
if you look at the net claim ratio, it is 83%,
slightly higher than the industry average of 82%
.  But complaints
are lower than the industry average.
So out of every 10,000 claims, only 8.96
complaints are registered.   The
industry average is around 22.65
complaints.  And the network
hospital base is also good.
We have 10,200 plus network
hospitals across the country.  Specifically,
if you are an adult and
want to take out an individual plan, the
minimum entry age is 18 years.
And there is also a life-long renewability option
.  But if you
want to add dependent kits to your policy, you
can add them as dependent kits from 91 days to 30 years of age.  And the premium payment
tenure also provides you with a lot of flexibility
.  You have the option to pay
premiums for one to five years
.  This means that even if
you want to pay the premium for five years in a single shot,
you are still
offered that flexibility.
And if we look at some insured options,
we have starting from 5 locks
.  And unlimited sum
insured is also provided.   The
available cover amounts include 7.5 lakhs, 10, 15,
20, 25 lakhs, and 50 lakhs options
.  Along with that, there are also options of 1 crore and 3
crores.  And
coverage is provided to you on an individual basis
.  There
is also a family floater with it.  And if you
want to take out a family floater, you can include a
maximum of two adults
and three dependents in one policy
.  And if we
look at the core features of this policy, we do have
room rent restrictions.  By
default, up to a single private room is
provided.  Otherwise, they are
providing a yes-on.  If we turn that
on,
we can delete all of these room restrictions.
Along with that, there are no co-payments or disease-wise sub-
limits.  And
pre- and post-hospitalization
expenses coverage is also provided very well
.  There is 90 days pre-
hospitalization and 180 days post-
hospitalization coverage.  And
along with that, treatments like usual day care and domiciliary Ayush are
all being
provided up to some extent.
And if you
look at the bonus provided in this policy, they provide us with a 20% bonus every year
.  Maximum 100%.  So this
bonus is a loyalty bonus, meaning we are providing a
20% bonus every year, whether we claim it or not
.
Along with that, there is also a restoration benefit.
That too is unlimited times.  So
every time we make a claim, our
cover amount is refilled.
That too will be unlimited times.
If we look at the waiting periods in this policy next year, we will see that we have
all the regular waiting periods,
meaning that only
accidents will be covered for the initial 30 days.  And
for specific illnesses, that is, some slow-
growing illnesses, there is a two-year
waiting period.  You will usually be given a
list of medical conditions
.  This includes
slow-growing illnesses like kidney stones, cataracts, and hernias
.  Additionally,
if you have diabetes, hypertension, or
cardiac conditions, and those are also
not pre-existing conditions, we have a
19-day waiting period.  And if there are
pre-existing diseases, there is a
standard
waiting period of three years.  And if we look at the
built-in highlight features in this policy,
we are provided with surrogacy and oocyte
cover.  If
there is no surrogate mother but there is an oocyte donor,
we are providing coverage for up to 5 locks
.  This can
be said to be a rare benefit.
Along with that, there is also a benefit called nursing at home
.  Post-hospitalization, up
to ₹2000 is provided every day
for a maximum of 10 days, and if you
have an active lifestyle,
you are provided with a maximum renewal discount of up to 30% due to the wellness benefit in this policy
.  Apart
from that, this policy
also provides us with coverage for bariatric surgery
.  Otherwise, there will be a two-year
waiting period.  But
you can
also reduce that waiting period to 30 days by purchasing an add-on
.  And another benefit is that
we don't need 24-hour hospitalization in this policy
.  So,
even if it's not a day care procedure, it's enough for us to
submit to some hospitalizations, and they are
providing coverage
.  As mentioned earlier, the
ecosystem behind this policy is very strong
.  Over 29 years old are available
.  Let us now look at the major advantages and disadvantages of this, as well as the
beneficial advantages
.  First, there is a pre-
existing disease waiting period
deduction.  So, as mentioned earlier, by
default you will have a three-year pre-
existing disease waiting period
.  But with this add-on, you can reduce it
to 12 months or 24 months
.  And another one is a Yead on
Clem producer.  So if we take this add-on,
we will have consumables coverage
.  This means that
coverage is also being provided for non-medical expenses
.  And if you take the Power Booster add-
on, you will get a 100% bonus, which means that
apart from the bonus you get by default, you will be
provided with an additional 100% bonus
every year. And in this policy, you
also have a room modifier add-on.  As
mentioned earlier, by default, you are
provided with a single private room
.  If not, you can upgrade
to any room with this add-
on.  Apart from that,
you can also downgrade
to a twin sharing room and then you will
get discounts.  Otherwise, as usual, we would
recommend downgrading, but we wouldn't do it
.  And with the Gem Start Yes feature in this policy,
we are provided coverage from 30 days for certain conditions such as
diabetes and hypertension without having to
serve a three-year waiting period
.  And those who want maternity benefits in this policy can add them on
.
In addition,
we also have a reduction on this maternity waiting period
.  Even if you
are looking for international coverage, you are provided with the option to turn on Worldwide Cover
.
And another beneficial thing is
criticality.  So, when certain listed
medical conditions are diagnosed, a lump sum of up
to 50 lakhs is paid
out.  This is over and above what your
hospitalization bill covers,
so let's now look at the primary discounts offered in this policy
.  First thing is the multi-tenure
discount. As mentioned earlier, you
can pay premiums for one to five years in one go, so
depending on the tenure you select, you are provided with a maximum discount of 15%
.  And
there is also a credit score-based discount, which also
provides a maximum discount of 15%
.  And if you renew early, they
provide a discount of up to 2.5% at the time of policy renewal
.  If you want to watch premium, you
can watch this video here.  This is what happens if 10 lakhs of cover is provided from Tier One city
for various customer profiles
.  So overall,
one idea will come to you when you look at this premium
.  We have
low premiums.  Especially when you
compare it to Optima Secure, the premiums are
lower.  So
the verdict so far is that Elevate provides a budget-
friendly policy
.  That too
in premium comprehensive policies.  So overall,
what is meant by dito take is that there are some strings attached to this policy here
.  First,
unlimited restoration is
being provided.  It also has a strong YD-
Ons base, so it also provides you with high customization
power.
Additionally, this policy has some unique
benefits.  As mentioned earlier,
surrogacy is covered.  In addition,
we are being
provided with coverage even for two hours of hospitalization.  So it
addresses all the key gaps in the market
.  And the pricing is also very
competitive.  Along with that,
flexibility is also
being provided.  This means that a five-year tenure
option is also being provided.  And even if
you have pre-existing conditions,
you can still reduce them with the riders in these policies.
This means that if you don't have Gem Start and take the Pre-
Existing Disease Reduction riders,
you won't have to serve the three-year waiting
period.  But there
are also considerations in this policy.
First of all, our claim settlement
ratio is lower than industry leaders
.  The claim settlement ratio, as
mentioned earlier, is around 85% on average
.  So before you take this policy, it is
better to compare the claims reliability with other companies. Along with that, as
mentioned earlier, there is a single private room
restriction by default, but it can be
covered by taking it on the go without any limit
and the bonus
is also comparatively low.  Only
20% bonus is being offered.  Typically,
some companies provide us with an annual bonus of 50% or 100%
.  And the yes-
ons in this policy are likely to cause a lot of confusion for first-time buyers
.
Because there are 29 yd ons.  So finally,
who should consider this policy? If
you think it provides customization value
and
you want more coverage options, then
you can consider this policy
.  And even if you are a budget-conscious
buyer, you can consider this policy
.  Especially since we are providing you with strong value
with unlimited restoration and key answers, if
you have any
specific requirements, such as
no surrogacy maternity, or if
you need a shorter waiting period for specific chronic conditions, you can
also consider this as an option
.  But apart from that, if you want to
look for alternatives, if you think the
highest claim settlement ratio is a
priority, you should
compare it with peer companies like HDFC Argo.  That's
better.  And even if you want higher coverage from day one,
like the 2X coverage provided by Optima Secure, it's
better to look at alternatives and
avoid any confusion.
Even those who think that by default I want all the coverage in the base policy, there are
many alternatives
in the market that you can also consider
.  But
before you take out health insurance, let me give you
a brief overview of how to break down your policy into a structure
.  If you are
living in metro cities, it is better to
take a minimum base cover amount of 15 lacs to 25 lacs
and along with that, it is better to take any add-ons that you
find beneficial, for example, if there is
no room modifier, then it is
better to take claim protector add-ons like this.  If
you have pre-existing conditions, you can definitely consider riders like Pre-
Existing Waiting Period Reduction
or Gem Start
.  And apart from that, if
you have specific
requirements, such as maternity, surrogacy, etc., it is
better to check whether those are also specifically covered.  And if
you want price
stability in health insurance, it's better to
pay premiums all at once for three to five years when you take out the policy
.  Because your premiums will be stable
.  Along with that, you will
also be given extra discounts.  So overall, do you want
to know how Elevate fits your family profile and what add-on combinations would make sense?
Book a free consultation.
We will provide a clear and case-specific blueprint.  Because if you include the right ones,
you can get an Elevate or any other
comprehensive plan specifically set up for your needs and
conditions
.  If you found this breakdown helpful, please
like, share and subscribe.
Your support will be very helpful for us in spreading insurance literature
.  See you again in the next video. Until then,
stay safe, stay
insured.